Nolan McDermott

1. Define:

Agent - Agents are software that perform actions without direct user interface. They respond to a
changing environment.

Agent Function - The agent function is the abstract definition of the agent's purpose. Often
simpler than the agent program, an example is our vacuum cleaner's agent function is to clean the
dirt.

Agent Program - The agent program is the concrete definition of an agent's purpose, down to the
code and that the agent does in any given scenario.

Rationality - The idea of following logic to get from correct preconditions to correct conclusions
or in an AI's case finding the best expected outcome.

Autonomy - In an AI's case it means acting on its own or without human intervention.

Reflex agent - An agent that follows a simple set of rules, like our table agent vaccume cleaner.

Model-based agent - An agent that abstracts the environment and models the world around it in order
to make a batter and more useful AI.

Goal-based agent - An agent that incoporates the end goal into its decision making. A combination of a set of goals and feasible actions, not always the most simple.

Utility-based agent - An agent that takes "happiness" or a ranking into account in its decision
making process. Helps deal with goal conflicts and uncertainty.

Learning Agent - An agent that improves on its past performace with data from preavious runs,
capable of adapting to different situations.

2. Explain the difference:

   Utility is used to evaluate an agent's performance inside the agent, while performance measures
   from outside the agent.

3. More differences:

a - Yes there can be more than 1 agent program in an agent function.

b - Yes there are agent functions that cannot be implemented by any agent program. Alan Turning's
Halting Problem would be an example of something no machine can do.

c - With a fixed machine architecture you can only use one agent function for each agent program.

d - Given n bits there are 2^n possible agent programs but it isn't enough. There are still
environments that there are no good agent programs for dealing with.

4. Explain Rationality:

a - The rational agent fucntion that deducts one point for each momement is in place in order to
clean with the least amount of movement. The agent program does require an internal state
because it is a model based reflex agent.

b - Possible agent designs for an environment that can become dirty or is unknown include sensors
that can scan the squares around the robot or a robot that runs continuously. It does make sense
for the agent to learn because it could find patterns in the dirty squares or discover the entire
enviorment.
